# Survey of Reservoir Greenhouse gas Emissions (SuRGE)

This project uses the `renv` library to manage library versions.  After creating a local clone, a message will appear in the console directing users to sync the project library  by running `renv::restore()`.  This will download the packages and versions used in this project as specified in the renv.lock file.  If you need to add libraries to the project, be sure to use `renv::snapshot` to update the lock file.  When collaborators sync their local clone with the master, they can then run `renv::restore()` to have the new library installed on their local project directory.  Please see here (https://rstudio.github.io/renv/index.html) for a primer on `renv` and here (https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/collaborating.html) for using `renv` in a collaborative workflow.

Please use caution when updating libraries already captured in the lock file.  The code runs succesfully with the suite of packages captured in the current lock file; updating package versions could cause problems with the existing code.  The whole point of `renv` is to  minimize the potential for code breakage due to differences among package versions.

The R project was initiated by J Beaulieu using R.3.6.2 and `renv` will produce a warning message if a different version of R is used.  In theory, `renv` shouldn't be sensitive to the version of R, but in practice I have found that `renv::restore()` can take a very long time or even fail if a different version of R is used.  For example, `renv::restore()` took 1.5 hours when tested with R.4.1.0, then `readxl::read_excel()` threw an error related to the `Rcpp` package.  I suggest using R.3.6.2.  

Please note that the .Rprofile file is under version control in the repository.  This file contains an autoloader which automatically downloads and installs the appropriate version of `renv` into the project library.  It is best that users do not use the .Rprofile file to further customize the environment. 

This project uses `conflicted` to manage conflicts between the `dplyr` functions `select()` and `filter()` and functions with the same names, but in different packages (i.e.`MASS::select()`).  The `conflicted` settings will always give preference to the dplyr library when `select()` or `filter()` are called.
